### Societal Colourblindness, and Misinterpretations of Media
### Written 02/12/2020, by Tyler J. Russell

***

#### Abstract

In this document, I will discuss the concepts of societal colourblindness, and
various misconstrued derivative ideologies. I would like to preface this by
saying I hold no personal bias over the matter and am in fact a strong advocate
for global integration and equality for all, irrespective of an individual's
abstract factors, but rather solely based on who they are as a human being.

#### Misinterpretations of the Media

It is no secret that for a long time various outlets have twisted and turned the
writings of great intellectuals from all sciences to drive the stance of the
articles' authors, much to the detriment of both the readers and the field
itself; after all, ignorance is the direct antithesis of science.

This is no different in the field of social sciences; more specifically, media
representation of the ideologies behind movements that seek to implement
strategies of societal colourblindness. So, I will start by defining precisely
what is meant by such terms: societal colourblindness is a concept in which the
abstract factors of one's background - particularly ethnic origins and race in
this ideology - are ignored in societal preferences and decisions in order to
create an environment of true equality. Hence, colourblindness: no matter the
category, we are all intrinsically human, and it is unfair to generalise or
decide on people's rights by painting any entire group with the same brush
based on such irrelevant features.

So, how do critics represent such a view?

#### Correcting the Criticism

Many respond to this by cautioning that adopting colourblindness in society is
detrimental, and could lead to denial of the existence of discrimination at
present or failure to acknowledge individual privileges or disadvantages based
on these features.

This, however, is not the aim of colourblindness at all: it is not an
immediate-effect attempt at curing the world of its current ignorance, it is an
ideology designed to be sought after in the long term. It does not call for
immediate failure to acknowledge anything surrounding such categories; instead,
it seeks to achieve a societal system in which all is fair and equal in regards
to any human irrespective of which categories the individual belong to.

Therefore, it does not dispel affirmative action, nor does it contribute to
denial of discrimination, when defined and sought for properly.

#### Viable Strategic Approaches

As aforementioned, societal colourblindness is not a stance designed for
immediate implementation. So, how do we get there?

First off, as demonstrated before, discrimination must be acknowledged and
action must be taken to resolve it and create a level playing field prior to
even a consideration of implementing the policies. Otherwise, affirmative
action is impossible to engage in, and the aforementioned undesired effects
which the media accuses all involved views of leaning towards become the only
outcome.

Following that, policies and laws must be readjusted to create true fairness
and equality for all, locking in the achieved neutral ground. That is the
alignment and implementation of societal colourblindness on an institutional
level. Furthermore, action must be taken on an individual level to take respect
for everyone's individual needs regardless of any perceived categoric negatives.

Then, and only then, is a truly colourblind society formed; one without the
stains of the past, one which has atoned for its nonsensical divisions, and one
that stops picking people out via labels like tins of soup on market shelves
but instead evolves to see people for who they are.

#### Postscript

I recognise that the ideas contained in this document may not be achieved in my
lifetime. I recognise that they may never be achieved at all, too. But that does
not stop me, nor should it stop anyone else, from pushing for a better future.

I sincerely hope this document serves useful to all that read it in
understanding the perspective and eventual goals of societal colourblindness,
an ideology sought after since even before Martin Luther King Jr. said "I have
a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they
will be judged not by the colour of their skin, but by the content of their
character".

Thank you. On to better things.  
~Tyler J. Russell
